
Ideas for the game.

So when flying away from massive distant objects, the ship actually flies both away and out from the planet, so it remains on screen, but gets farther and farther away.
I think all collisions are maintained. The player still travels on the same axis


Take some inspiration from Spaceflight Simulator, and how it designed the world as if it was a 3D object, and we can just land on a plane of it.

I should have three planes. The foreground plane, the middleground plane (player's plane), and the background plane.

Asteroids will still (probably) not scale like the planets. 


The thing is, that I can't implement a frictionless spaceflight system unless the player can see all obsticles ahead of them.
It very well may be more pleasing to have space normally extended in-front of you. But if I do that, I will have to cap player speed.

I can still make it frictionless, or relatively frictionless. But I can't have the player go whatever speed they want.

If I want to have the player go lightspeeds, then perhaps disable all small enough objects, and then zoom out a lot. 


I wonder if I should add a car mode for driving on planets....
Say.... What if I made the whole planet an open world for driving in a car. (So you can fly in space, and then drive on land, and then perhaps also swim in water)

I should not make it combat based, but instead have it be exploration and ecological based, where you chart the universe, figure out the orbit of planets, discover new species, etc. You start out with a blank map of the solar system, and then explore from there. (Though, I will want to create ways for the player to find planets.)

I kind of have to consider here the advantage of non-distant objects. The thing is, that it would be nice to provide a sort of background imagery and whatnot.


I should make turning slower when thruster is on. (It will make high speed turning more intuitive, especially if it is hard to see which direction your ship is pointing.

I should have forward particles that are closer to the camera, and speed past the camera faster than the middleground. It will really give a 3D aesthetic to it. 
If I can, I should make it transparent. If not, then perhaps use a circle dot transparency method.

If possible, make it so that jet streams vary in transparency and size. 

Bubble gradients would make for a really cool aesthetic theme. Expecially if we can see them slowly shrink and whatnot for something like the jetstream

Maybe I can make the jetstream a sort of weapon or tool.

It would be cool if the jetstream was a liquid paint that could paint other objects. And imagine enemies that hunt you that you could just push away or blind with your paint.


I suddenly want a place where you can collect orbs, all of them physics based. 


Due to the new stream mechanics, (which is really satisfying), it would be a shame to eliminate speed turning. I should make it so that the player can turn faster simply when the stream isn't on, and to be able to maintain that turn speed when the stream is reignighted. That way I can technically have both mechanics, and make it more skill based. Though the speed cap is now low enough that maybe I can just have the player turn slow when going fast and the stream is on.


It would be cool if the player is capable of navigating without a minimap, and without markers. That zoom out planet idea is a fun idea. 

I should probably add relative and objective layers.

I should add layers to the world, rather than to the objects. That sounds much more like an efficient layering. I will probably start with 3 objective layers, then 1 subjective layer behind them all.

I wonder if I can use the star particles to give the illusion of the player flying towards a planet to explain why it is getting bigger. It probably wouldn't be hard to do if I implement a zoom mechanic, as I can just add the stars to the subjective layer, or even their own special layer, and just have their modulous be a 3 dimensional modulous. That way they actually move around like in a 3D world.

Should a world always be in view of the player? Or perhaps should they only become subjective once you leave their atmosphere?

Add a paint ring around one of the planets. It would be cool if the paint ring was an actual paint ring that you had to swim through to bypass.


The planets aren't subject to objective friction, though the player is. So I should probably make it so that either the planets stay still, or so that the player inherits the velocity of the planet as objective space. 
Though honestly, I can't really see much use of simulated planets. So I will probably have the planets be motionless.


Okay, now it is time to come to a consensus about positioning. 
I am now having to deal with x,y,z positioning. I would prefer keep things as an array, with the z position excluded, and then to just include that when putting it into the camera. Which I guess may work, as the camera returns an object, not modifies it. 
I should include in the parent simulatable class a way to convert points to 

For overhead meteors that go above the camera (or for any object that goes above the camera) I should just draw them as shadows (scaled to size of zoom).
It would really only be prevalent if there are meteorites on the same plane to catch the shadow. Though it would be really cool if the planet's ring casts a shadow on the planet. Also if the player casts a shadow on underside meteorites (which I can just darken to show that they are just background elements)

Paint splatters should just be spheres or circles. 


If I add spheres as collectables, DO NOT MAKE THEM COMMON AND SCATTERED. Because then it will turn into a grind game. Rather, make them rare to locate, but can be found in large quantities. It is much more rewarding, and much less of a grind to do it that way. 

And adding creatures to this world still seems like a good idea. I should add space creatures too, like perhaps a really spindle looking jellyfish (an alien looking jellyfish)

I should also add snarkers to kind of seem like clustered space fish.

I should have meteorite clusters be rare. That way encounters are less common, allowing for peaceful space flying moments.

I wonder if I should add harmful creatures that will attack you unless you figure out how to "tame" them.


On the note of what to do for data, I think it is probably a good idea to just have this be arrays. (Though, I should probably look into how much data this would even take, which may not be all that much)

And then I will perhaps convert everything in the main draw function. I think I was planning to put the format loop within the draw rather than outsourcing it to an array or camera prototype.


For networking, I should probably just have a player simply be able to host their own game, and to give other's their IP.
And as for save data, I should perhaps have literal savefiles, and cookies. Cookies for temporary saves, and savefiles for permanant saves. 

Anyway, a hosted game will be pretty lax on security. Mostly because this game is meant to be played with friends, and is for fun. So the only thing that the host will handle is simply letting everyone in the game know and see where everyone is. 
I suppose there is also the case of synchronizing certain elements of the game, which sounds a bit more prone to lag.

At the same time, it doesn't sound hard to host a server document that is able to change itself, kind of like the cloud. I imagine something like google docs. 


You know, 
For the steam, instead of creating a bunch of points to create the stream, I could just use a curved line that only piecewises whenever the player changes direction or thrust.

I could maybe even just do some math to ensure it is similar to the points by just having a line solver, and whenever the error for the line exceeds a certain amount, or if the player turns in a way that would create a sharp corner (which very well may be within the domain of the error), then it creates a new line. 
So basically it will create points, but the points aren't what are drawn. Rather the points are used to create a line to represent the points. And the list of points is reset once the most recent line breaks off into a new one.


After flying around a bit in the demo, I was thinking how fun it would be to have permanant retention on jetstreams. (Well, permanant enough to do what I want them to do)
See, what made them rather fun, other than being able to paint space, is that I can retrace mysteps using my trail to find out where I used to be. And honestly it is kind of fun following my own trail to make it to the end.
At the very least, setting up a curve for the lines will save a ton of memory and processing, because once they leave the screen, their accuracy isn't nearly as important. 

I wonder if I should have them collide with the player as well. This is mostly in response to when the player makes a mess, and how it can be an eyesore if permanantly there. 

Oh. What would make this really fun is following the streams of other players. Not so much unknown players, but if these players were your friends, and you were trying to find them. And their streams are different colors.
I wonder how gravity will mess up these strings. Actually, I think due to the nature of my game, there is no gravity until you enter the atmosphere.

It would be kind of funny though to have meteorites mess up your string path. Though something like that would probably have to be pre-generated, as it would be too costly to compute for everything.

I wonder if I should scale the other players and their streams with the planets, so that it may be possible to see them leave a distant planet or whatnot.



I am thinking, for global function methods that really are only to be used for one object (are specilized), then I should include them in the module it should be used in.




Permanantly retaining streams is actually really fun.
Also, I should consider having the streams adjust themselves as if they were string so as to eliminate high turn curves, so as to allow bigger line fitting curves. Though the real reason I want to add this is that it may make it look better in the long run.
Also consider some other optimiations, because once the string gets long enough, it does start to slow down the game more and more. It really isn't noticable unless you let go a long line, which frees up the frame rate. 

Also, turns out the terrible random spikes in the fps was not my own code, but rather my computer, being mostly firefox, and perhaps a bit of cold turkey.








 
